Earlier, we saw how we can link Node.js to MongoDB.
In this section,
we're going to talk about how we can link up ASP.NET Core to PostgreSQL.
So to get started, I have an ASP.NET Core application.
It's an MVC app, and it uses Entity Framework Core.
Now, one of the first things it has is a DbSeeder.
And so if I come into here,
you're going to notice that I seed it with the Docker commands, if I scroll on
down that you saw a little bit earlier with the Node.js example. We're just
going to use some different containers this time.
Now, in addition to that, it has our DB context for this.
So you'll notice we have a DockerCommandsDbContext.
And this is pretty standard stuff, very basic.
It just has a collection of DockerCommands that are
going to be seeded into the database.
And then if we go into our Startup file,
you'll notice that we add Entity Framework support, and this is the extension
method right here for calling into PostgreSQL. Now moving on down at the very
bottom, you're also going to see at the very bottom of the middleware that here
is the dockerCommandsDbSeeder, and then,
although I'm not going to go into it much here,
this also has a single page application,
a spot application available as well, and it shows customers.
So there's what we're doing the seeding, and that's the general flow of the app,
if you will. Now to get started using it, we can go to
aspnetcore.dockerfile. And this is pretty standard based on what we've seen.
We have our mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/sdk.
We have the label, environment variable for the port we want to
use, our working directory. We're going to copy all the code in,
this is a real simple example, to the Working Directory folder.
Expose that port, and then, in this case,
because it's an SDK image,
we're going to do a .NET restore and a .NET run. So
this wouldn't be used for production, of course,
but it's a nice and easy way to quickly build this. Now at the
bottom, I put some comments here for running this particular demo.
Legacy linking, just to reiterate, is, well,
it's Legacy.
That's why they call it Legacy linking.
And so while it's older, you may come across it,
though,
and you may even have a scenario at work where you have to use it,
potentially, because that might be how it was set up.
That's really the reason we're covering this.
Although what I'm going to show you here isn't necessarily
the preferred way these days, that'll be coming up next
when we talk about networks, it is viable,
and it does work, and you could do it with ASP.NET Core.
So, the first thing I'm going to do is just a standard build.
Let's go ahead and do that right here.
And I've already run this, so it'll be superfast, you'll see.
Now the next thing is I'm going to start up my PostgreSQL image,
and we're going to pull that down, which I already have,
and then we're going to run it.
But notice that I'm giving it a name of my‑postgres.
Now, it could be anything again.
We could just call it postgres, for example, if we wanted.
But down below, you're going to see where I link to it.
I'm going to alias that.
Okay,
so postgres is actually what we want to call, but my linking name is going
to be my‑postgres because it's based on the name up here.
Now I want to emphasize you don't have to do that,
but you may come across this, and then you'll know why
there's a colon between these two.
It's really just mapping kind of an alias, a name to the actual target.
Now the other thing we do is we add an environment variable.
And in this case, I'm just setting the password of the database.
Please don't use password, by the way, for real,
but for the demo it's fine. And this will actually pass
that to the startup of the container.
So when the database first comes up,
it will read this and actually use it as the password.
Now the rest of this you've already seen,
you'll see a docker run in detached mode, port
external is 5000, internal is 5000.
And then here's our linking,
which is really the core of what we're talking about here.
And then there's the image I just built.
So, first thing I'll do is let's get this running, our PostgreSQL.
All right, so that should be started up.
Now let's get our aspnetcore, and that started up.
Now let me clear this and we'll do a docker ps.
All right, so you'll notice both are up.
Here's our aspnetcore, here's our postgres.
Now, look at the names here.
They gave it a name because I didn't name the aspnetcore
container, and they gave it angry_franklin.
They come up with these really bizarre, random names.
But here's our name, my‑postgres. Now, what's important here,
though, is if we go into our connection string settings.
So if I come on in to appsettings here,
come on down to our DockerCommandsConnectionString,
notice that the server is postgres; not my‑postgres, postgres.
Now,
that's why we did the alias because we named the
container my‑postgres, but in reality,
we want to call the postgres that's actually
running behind the scenes here. Now, since both these are linked up and running,
let's run off to the browser now. So I'm going to go to localhost 5000.
Now,
this is going to load a single page app I mentioned
earlier that shows customers,
but I'll leave this and go to the Docker commands. And
there we go. So you could see it worked.
It seeded the database with these Docker commands,
and then it linked those two containers together so that first off,
it knows that the PostgreSQL container needs to start first,
then ASP.NET Core.
Now as a heads up, it's not going to wait.
There's no way for Docker to know when Postgres or Mongo or any of
these especially databases are finished loading.
So if you ever do have code that has to seed,
maybe lookup table data, for example, you might call,
and it fails because the database hasn't finished loading
in the container yet. All linking does is make sure that
they start in the proper order.
It doesn't guarantee the database is done,
though,
so that's something to be aware of, and that means you might
have to have some try catch type code and some retries if
you're ever seeding something, especially in development.
So that's an example of how we could do linking with ASP.NET Core and Postgres.
You can see it's very similar to what we did earlier with Node and MongoDB.
So from here, let's move on to the more modern way to do this, and that's going to be networks.